#Middle Gen Consoles:
The fourth generation of game consoles was headlined by the Sega Genesis. It was the first console to truly adopt 16 bit graphics and was seen by the gaming community as huge leap forward. It featured games such as Mortal Kombat and Sonic the Hedgehog. Even the Sega eventually failed as a console manufacturer the Sega Genesis is remembered for pushing, through healthy aggressive competition, Nintendo which at the time of the Genesis’s launch had an over 90% market share in the home console market. An enduring legacy of the Genesis is the ESRB stickers (parental advisory) that are on every single game sold in the U.S. in response to the violent nature of their games.


The fifth generation of consoles is led by the Sony Playstation. The brainchild of Ken Kutaragi it started as a partnership between Sony and Nintendo. Nintendo abruptly cancelled the partnership and replaced Sony with Phillips, Infuriating the C.E.O. of Sony. Thus Sony Computer was formed from the C.E.O. of Sony Music and Ken Kutaragi. Playstation was released in 1995 and was a smash hit. It became the first console to sell over 100 million units. Hindsight is always 20/20 but being rejected by Nintendo became the best thing that ever happened to Sony.


The sixth generation of video games was defined by the highest selling video game console of any kind to date, The Playstation 2 or PS2. With over 155 million units sold and when you compare the 2 closest competitors of its generation (Nintendo GameCube 22 mil., Microsoft Xbox 24 mil.) which combined are short of 50 million it is fair to say it blew the doors off its competition. PS2 owes its success to many factors. First at the time average cost of DVD players at the time was 900$ and PS2 had DVD capability giving even non gamers reason to purchase the console. Second it was the first console to allow backwards compatibility and allowed PS1 gamers (and its over 100 million console owners) to play there PS1 games on the PS2. Third it had a broad assortment of game developers pledged to produce games for the system. All these factors contributed to the most successful console to date.
